ref/threads/switch.adoc, before:

= switch

Assembly code

== General
void ThreadRoot(void)::
+
[WARNING]
====
This function expects following initialization to be already done:

.Expected Register initialization
[width="100%",options="header"]
|====================
| Register | Value expected to be loaded 
| eax | points to startup function (interrupt enable)
| edx | contains inital argument to thread function
| esi | points to thread function
| edi | point to Thread::Finish()
|====================
====


== MIPS proc

void ThreadRoot(void)::
* clear frame pointer
* execute *StartupPC* => thread->SetupThreadState
* move *InitialArg* to argument registers => a0(arg reg) = arg
* call the thread procedure => func(arg)
* after thread returns, call *WhenDonePC* => thread->finish()

void SWITCH( thread *t1, thread *t2 )::
+
[NOTE]
====
registers involved:

* sp: stack pointer
* s0-s7: GPR(General Purpose Reg)???
* fp: frame pointer
* ra: return address
====
* save all registers of old thread to stack
* load all registers of new thread from stack
* call return address of new thread
+
[NOTE]
====
Because of this instruction, even though you come into switch from a thread, you return from switch into new thread
====

== i386 proc

void ThreadRoot(void)::
+
[NOTE]
====
The expected initialization is done during *AllocateStack* in threads/thread
====
* Store the stack frame of the calling function on the stack
+
----
pushl %ebp
----
+
[NOTE]
====
%ebp is the "base pointer" for stack frame. It's the pointer used by the C runtime to access local variables and parameters on the stack.
====
* Takes the current stack pointer and uses it as the frame for the called function
+
----
movl %esp, %ebp
----
* leave room for local variables
+
----
subl $16, %esp
----
+
[NOTE]
====
Now function is ready for business. 

Any references with a -ve offset from the %ebp% register are local variables.

Any references with a +ve offset from the %ebp% register are parameters passed in to function
====

* execute *StartupPC* => thread->SetupThreadState
* move *InitialArg* to argument registers => a0(arg reg) = arg
* call the thread procedure => func(arg)
* after thread returns, call *WhenDonePC* => thread->finish()

void SWITCH( thread *t1, thread *t2 )::
+
[NOTE]
====
registers involved:
* e()x where () = a-d
* esi, edi
* ebp, esp
====
* save all registers of old thread to stack
* load all registers of new thread from stack
* execute ret
+
[NOTE]
====
Since PC now has address of new thread, the function returns to new thread
====

Commit message:

pretty much all of base level stuff covered now

ref/threads/switch.adoc, after:

= switch

Assembly code

== General
void ThreadRoot(void)::
+
[WARNING]
====
This function expects following initialization to be already done:

.Expected Register initialization
[width="100%",options="header"]
|====================
| Register | Value expected to be loaded 
| eax | points to startup function (interrupt enable)
| edx | contains inital argument to thread function
| esi | points to thread function
| edi | point to Thread::Finish()
|====================
====


== MIPS proc

void ThreadRoot(void)::
* clear frame pointer
* execute *StartupPC* => thread->SetupThreadState
* move *InitialArg* to argument registers => a0(arg reg) = arg
* call the thread procedure => func(arg)
* after thread returns, call *WhenDonePC* => thread->finish()

void SWITCH( thread *t1, thread *t2 )::
+
[NOTE]
====
registers involved:

* sp: stack pointer
* s0-s7: GPR(General Purpose Reg)???
* fp: frame pointer
* ra: return address
====
* save all registers of old thread to stack
* load all registers of new thread from stack
* call return address of new thread
+
[NOTE]
====
Because of this instruction, even though you come into switch from a thread, you return from switch into new thread
====

== i386 proc

The routines below execute when the threads are created/switched at the nachos level not at the user program level on MIPS simulator.
+
[NOTE]
====
If all the thread actions(including creating and switching) are explicitly managed by the code at nachos level(not mips sim level), then from host linux point of view are'nt the nachos threads  user level threads? 
====


void ThreadRoot(void)::
+
[NOTE]
====
The expected initialization is done during *AllocateStack* in threads/thread
====
* Store the stack frame of the calling function on the stack
+
----
pushl %ebp
----
+
[NOTE]
====
%ebp is the "base pointer" for stack frame. It's the pointer used by the C runtime to access local variables and parameters on the stack.
====
* Takes the current stack pointer and uses it as the frame for the called function
+
----
movl %esp, %ebp
----
* leave room for local variables
+
----
subl $16, %esp
----
+
[NOTE]
====
Now function is ready for business. 

Any references with a -ve offset from the %ebp% register are local variables.

Any references with a +ve offset from the %ebp% register are parameters passed in to function
====

* execute *StartupPC* => thread->SetupThreadState
* move *InitialArg* to argument registers => a0(arg reg) = arg
* call the thread procedure => func(arg)
* after thread returns, call *WhenDonePC* => thread->finish()

void SWITCH( thread *t1, thread *t2 )::
+
[NOTE]
====
registers involved:
* e()x where () = a-d
* esi, edi
* ebp, esp
====
* save all registers of old thread to stack
* load all registers of new thread from stack
* execute ret
+
[NOTE]
====
Since PC now has address of new thread, the function returns to new thread
====
